started refining network config chapter (#641)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/assemblies/assembly_planning-your-ipam-configuration.adoc

= Planning your IPAM configuration

In a {rhos_long} deployment, each service that is deployed on the {rhocp_long} worker nodes requires an IP address from the IP Address Management (IPAM) pool. In a {rhos_prev_long} ({OpenStackShort}) deployment, all services that are hosted on a Controller node shared the same IP address.

Since the new control plane deployment has different requirements as to the

> number of IP addresses available for services, you cannot reuse the existing IP ranges in the {rhos_acro} environment, depending on the size.

Reviewer: "Since the new control plane deployment has different requirements as to the ..."
IBM Style guide: 
"since - Use with caution. To facilitate translation, use this word only to refer to time. Do not use it as a synonym for because."

```suggestion
The new control plane deployment has different requirements for the number of IP addresses that are available for services, therefore you cannot reuse the existing IP ranges in the {rhos_acro} environment.
```
OR

```suggestion
The number of IP addresses that are made available for services is different for the new control plane deployment than the {rhos_acro} environment. Therefore, you cannot use the IP ranges from the existing {rhos_acro} environment in the new control plane environment.
```

What is ", depending on the size" relating to/trying to convey?

The total number of IP addresses that are required for the new control plane services in each isolated network is calculated as the sum of the following:

> * The number of {OpenShiftShort} worker nodes. Each node requires 1 IP address in the `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` custom resources (CRs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The number of {OpenShiftShort} worker nodes. Each node requires 1 IP address in each `NodeNetworkConfigurationPolicy` custom resource (CR).
```

> * The number of IP addresses required for the data plane nodes. Each node requires an IP address from the `NetConfig` CRs.

Reviewer: I think you just create one NetConfig CR for the data plane network:

```suggestion
* The number of IP addresses required for the data plane nodes. Each node requires an IP address from the `NetConfig` CR.
```

Author: @booxter Can you confirm that you create one NetConfig CR for the data plane network? See the suggested edit, above^.

Reviewer 2: Correct. Please apply this change.

* The number of IP addresses required for control plane services. Each service requires an IP address from the `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` CRs. This number depends on the number of replicas for each service.
* The number of IP addresses required for load balancer IP addresses. Each service requires a Virtual IP address from the `IPAddressPool` CRs.

For example, a simple single worker node {OpenShiftShort} deployment
with Red Hat OpenShift Local has the following IP ranges defined for the `internalapi` network:

> 

Author: Does this sentence still make sense? CRC (CodeReady Containers) is not used anymore, so I changed it to "Red Hat OpenShift Local."

* 1 IP address for the single worker node
* 1 IP address for the data plane node
* `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` CRs for control plane services:
  `X.X.X.30-X.X.X.70` (41 addresses)
* `IPAllocationPool` CRs for load balancer IPs: `X.X.X.80-X.X.X.90` (11
  addresses)

This example shows a total of 54 IP addresses allocated to the `internalapi`
allocation pools.

> // TODO: update the numbers above for a more realistic multinode cluster.

Author: Has the TODO comment been addressed?

Author: @booxter It's okay to leave the TODO comments. I've just been calling them out to remind engineers to either address them, or if they have been addressed, to delete them.
